Migration guide for PrimaryScrollController Updates (#7274)
flutter/website: src/release/breaking-changes/primary-scroll-controller-desktop.md

side-by-side. The prior implementation of `PrimaryScrollController` conflicted
with this pattern, resulting in an often unhelpful error message. To remedy this,
the `PrimaryScrollController` has been updated with additional parameters as
well as better error messaging across multiple widgets that depend on it.

## Description of change

The previous implementation of `ScrollView` resulted in `primary` being true by
default for all vertical `ScrollView`s that did not already have a
`ScrollController`, on all platforms. This default behavior was not always clear,
particularly because it is separate from the `PrimaryScrollController` itself.

<!-- skip -->
```dart
// Previously, this ListView would always result in primary being true,
// and attached to the PrimaryScrollController on all platforms.
Scaffold(
  body: ListView.builder(
    itemBuilder: (BuildContext context, int index) {
      return Text('Item $index');
    }
  ),
);
```

The implementation changes `ScrollView.primary` to be nullable, with the fallback
decision-making being relocated to the `PrimaryScrollController`.
When `primary` is null, and no `ScrollController` has been provided, the `ScrollView`

> will look up the `PrimaryScrollController` and instead calls `shouldInherit` to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will look up the `PrimaryScrollController` and instead call `shouldInherit` to
```

determine if the given `ScrollView` should use the `PrimaryScrollController`.

The new members of the `PrimaryScrollController` class,

> `automaticallyInheritForPlatforms`, and `scrollDirection` are evaluated in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`automaticallyInheritForPlatforms` and `scrollDirection`, are evaluated in
```

`shouldInherit`, allowing users clarity and control over the
`PrimaryScrollController`'s behavior.

By default, backwards compatibility is maintained for mobile platforms.

> `PrimaryScrollController.shouldInherit` will return true for vertical
> `ScrollView`s. On desktop, this will return false by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`PrimaryScrollController.shouldInherit` returns true for vertical
`ScrollView`s. On desktop, this returns false by default.
```

<!-- skip -->
```dart
// Only on mobile platforms will this attach to the PrimaryScrollController by
// default.
Scaffold(
  body: ListView.builder(
    itemBuilder: (BuildContext context, int index) {
      return Text('Item $index');
    }
  ),
);
```

To change the default, users can set `ScrollView.primary` true or false to
explicitly manage the `PrimaryScrollController` for an individual `ScrollView`.
For behavior across multiple `ScrollView`s, the `PrimaryScrollController` is now
configurable by setting the specific platform, as well as the scroll direction
that is preferred for inheritance.

> Widgets that use the `PrimaryScrollController` such as the `NestedScrollView`,
> `Scrollbar`, and `DropdownMenuButton` will experience no change to existing
> functionality. Features like the iOS scroll-to-top will also continue to work as
> expected without any migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Widgets that use the `PrimaryScrollController`, such as `NestedScrollView`,
`Scrollbar`, and `DropdownMenuButton` will experience no change to existing
functionality. Features like the iOS scroll-to-top will also continue to work as
expected without any migration.
```

`ScrollAction`s, and `ScrollIntent`s on desktop are the only classes affected by
this change, requiring migration. By default, the `PrimaryScrollController` is
used to execute fallback keyboard scrolling `Shortcuts` if the current `Focus` is
contained within a `Scrollable`. Since displaying more than one `ScrollView`

> side-by-side is common on desktop platforms, it is not possible for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
side-by-side is common on desktop platforms, it isn't possible for
```

Flutter to decide "Which `ScrollView` should be primary in this view and receive
the keyboard scroll action?"

> If more than one `ScrollVie`w were present previous to this change, the same
> assertion (`ScrollController attached to multiple ScrollViews.`) would be thrown.
> Now, on desktop platforms, users will need to specify `primary: true` to
> designate which `ScrollView` is the fallback to receive unhandled keyboard
> `Shortcuts`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If more than one `ScrollView` was present previous to this change, the same
assertion (`ScrollController attached to multiple ScrollViews.`) would be thrown.
Now, on desktop platforms, users need to specify `primary: true` to
designate which `ScrollView` is the fallback to receive unhandled keyboard
`Shortcuts`.
```
